Welcome to Conestone.
Here's Pastor Steve's message of the week.
Again, I do enjoy us meeting together, but I'm thankful that we have this opportunity to be able to do so.
So not going to keep you.
I know it's already late in the afternoon.
But I'm so thankful for you tuning in.
So I want to pray with you and I want to present you with a message this afternoon.
So if you would please pray with me.
Lord, thank you for this time that we have together.
It's just wonderful to be able to meet this way.
We're thankful Lord that you have given us what we have.
Lord, we know that the snow and all was just beautiful.
Lord, just another visual of the handiwork that you have.
Father in your quivers.
So we're just grateful, Lord, that you just take care of us.
Grateful, Father, that we see the hand of God in so many different ways.
So thank you, Lord, for your blessings.
Thank you, Lord, for loving us and taking care of us.
So Lord, as we have this message together this afternoon, we just pray that this is something that will just touch hearts, Father, and just remind us of our goal, Father, is to be able to spread the word in the name of Jesus Christ.
So we thank Him.
We love You.
And it's in the name of Jesus we pray.
Amen.
Well, Suzanne, Melissa, we'll have to wait till next Sunday on that.
I mean, I could sing Mary Had a Little Lamb or Jesus Loves Me or something, but I don't have a track lined up for up here this afternoon.
But anyway, I will.
I promise I'll put that on there for you.
But it's good to have you guys.
And if you would, if you have your Bibles, and I pray that you do, whether it's a copy like
I have my trusty reader here with me, and maybe you haven't on your phone or somewhere else, but if you have your Bible turned to the book of 2nd Peter, this is a message that I wanted to preach in person, but we're going to do this today, and we may revisit it again soon to make sure that all of our folks hear it, but it's 2nd Peter chapter one, verses one through 11.
Next week, let me go ahead and give you this heads up.
I know I won't preach it next week because we're having deacon ordination next Sunday and next Sunday we'll be ordaining our brother Joe Arravelis and then also our brother Rick Burkey as a deacon.
So we're happy to be able to do that and excited for those guys as we get all of that together for them.
And I am anticipating a full house
next week to be able to celebrate those guys and and to be able to honor the Lord through their ordination and and Hopefully we won't have any more weather like this to contend with to have to make these crazy Decisions to do this but again, it's our second Peter chapter 1 verses 1 through 11 and maybe you're there But I'll just remind you we had a I was out of pocket I think it was the last Sunday of the year and
and my brother Brandon Williamson challenged the congregation with something in for 2026 and it was to be more intentional about our spiritual growth and he reminded us in one of my favorite passages of scripture that says how we should rejoice always and pray continually, give thanks and all things and all of this, listen, I can tell you as he was telling you, all three of those things is essential
to continued intentional spiritual growth.
So we're going to piggyback on that today just a little bit.
And let's read with this.
If you found your place, let's read this scripture together.
Second Peter chapter one, verses one through 11 says this.
Simon Peter, a servant and apostle of Jesus Christ, to those who through the righteousness of our God and Savior Jesus Christ have received a faith as precious as ours.
Grace and peace be yours in abundance through the knowledge of God and of Jesus our Lord.
His divine power has given us everything we need for a godly life through our knowledge of Him who called us by His own glory and goodness.
Through these He has given us His very great and precious promises so that through them you may participate in the divine nature, having escaped the corruption in the world,
caused by evil desires.
For this very reason make every effort to add to your faith goodness and to goodness knowledge and to knowledge self-control and to self-control perseverance and to perseverance godliness and to godliness mutual affection and to mutual affection love
For if you possess these qualities in increasing measure, they will keep you from being ineffective and unproductive in your knowledge of our Lord Jesus Christ.
But whoever does not have them is nearsighted and blind, forgetting that they have been cleansed from their past sins.
Therefore, my brothers and sisters, make every effort to confirm your calling and election.
For if you do these things, you will never stumble and you will receive a rich welcome
into the eternal kingdom of our Lord and Savior, Jesus Christ.
So again, this is a wonderful passage of scripture that we want to talk about for just a few minutes here this afternoon on Facebook Live.
And many of you know Lisa and me very, very well and you know that we moved to Aiken in 2017 from Little Town just west of Charleston called Walterboro, South Carolina.
in this little small house there that we bought right after we first got married.
We were in there for about 12 years.
God moved us here to Aiken from there.
So many of our congregation came and helped us move and that was such a blessing to have them do this.
But this little house, as small as it was, was nothing short of a mansion to us.
And we were just so thankful to have it.
We were there all together and God gave it to us and I know for a fact
just through the events that played out.
I can share this with you one day, but just through the events that played out, we are just blessed.
We were blessed to have this home that God provided.
There's so many memories that were built in that house that our children keep talking about.
They're telling our grandchildren about all of those memories.
So God truly gave us
those home, that home.
And I'll tell you, and maybe some of you do this, but in that small little house were small little closets.
And in one of those closets, um, we kept up with the kids growth.
It was a real Brady bunch type of thing.
If you get my drift, we placed a mark on the wall of that closet.
We would measure how they were growing.
And you know, I'll tell you a little bit of a bigger story to remind you that,
We should be also not only measuring our physical growth, but just as to piggyback on that as we said earlier, we should be monitoring, just as we were monitoring the children's growth physically, we should be monitoring our spiritual growth as well.
So I believe that Peter in this passage this morning was explaining this, or this afternoon is explaining this.
So as you also know, we have been watching The Chosen on Sunday nights together, and we're now in season number four.
and Simon or Peter that is the author of this book is one of the main characters of these episodes that we have watched.
Now in these episodes from season one until where we are now in season four certainly portrays the spiritual growth of who we now know as Peter or some call him actually Simon Peter.
Peter if he could speak to you in person he would tell you
a few things about himself and through the Gospels and the books of 1st and 2nd Peter is playing to see these things actually concerning Simon Peter's own spiritual growth.
He tell you that in his younger days he was considered to be a confident type of person and perhaps at times maybe he came out became a little bit too overconfident
There were times that he ignored the warnings of Jesus.
He would place himself in dangerous situations.
There were times that he would put his patience to the wayside.
He wasn't very patient.
He would begin to run ahead of Jesus.
He would make matters worse as he often did this.
He would remind you also of a time that you're going to remember when I say this, but he would remind you of a time of when he should have been praying, but instead he was sleeping.
So he'd also likely tell you that a lot of times that instead of listening he was talking.
But perhaps he would tell you that in his great, in his Christian life that he would sometimes display great courage.
And at other times he may have exhibited great carelessness as well.
So Peter was well-rounded so to speak when we think about him.
So as I had been preparing about this,
for me, and you know, and maybe you as well as you've been hearing me speak about these things about Peter, I couldn't help but compare myself to him.
And if you put some thought into it, maybe Peter's life and some of these things, it sounds a little bit like all of us to some degree.
Peter of course wrote, second Peter, to all of us to learn some of the same lessons that over time it took him to learn and he was beginning to show us here that there are two descriptions of
the Christian life.
And the first are those of us who believe, who are true believers in Jesus Christ, true believers.
We all believe the truth and what we are told about the gospel of Jesus Christ.
But then unfortunately there's a second grouping and those folks are what we can call the counterfeits.
And if I were there in person with you, I'd get you to repeat that.
So repeat that with me, counterfeits.
That's who they are.
What do counterfeits do?
Well,
They preach a gospel, but it's a false gospel.
It's incorrect theology.
It's terrible doctrine.
And so as we look at these 11 verses this morning, I think that we're going to be able to identify a few things.
There's three things that will help us to better understand both what our faith is and then also our need for continual spiritual growth through the lens of Jesus Christ as we focus
totally and daily on what true believers should actually be believing.
So I believe that the very first thing that we see here is that it all starts with our faith, doesn't it?
It all starts with our faith.
If you'll notice with me in verse one where Peter made an identification here.
There you go, Susan counterfeits.
I see that.
But it starts in verse one where Peter identified his faith as being precious.
You see Peter walked with God.
He walked and he talked with the Lord.
He was a huge part of, we see this in the chosen, that he was a huge part of this inner circle of Jesus Christ throughout his earthly ministry.
So for all of us today, our faith, even though we don't have Jesus right here in the flesh with us, we know that the basis of what we believe is built solely on the eternal existence of Jesus Christ.
in verses one and two, Peter is identifying who their faith was in, and it's in the same person that our faith should be in, and his name is Jesus.
So listen, I'll say it this way, if we're putting our faith in ourselves or in anything or in anyone else, then we're going to be disagreeing with all that this passage of scripture that we read this morning has to say.
Listen in here at this declaration this morning.
Our faith, my faith, your faith, the faith of mankind must be in Jesus Christ alone.
We cannot have any spiritual growth in our lives if we are living by anything different than Him.
We can't go by a different set of rules in our own lives and expect to grow spiritually in our walk with Jesus.
doesn't work that way.
Here in verse one, Peter was very plain about who Jesus is.
He made this declaration.
He made a pronouncement that said, God, the Savior, and Jesus Christ, all one and the same.
That's who they are.
We've looked through the book of Titus before.
We've done a book study on Titus.
And Paul also mentions this same deity of Christ, thereto Titus.
And Titus chapter three, verses four and five, tell us this.
But when the kindness and love of God, our Savior appeared.
He saved us not because of righteous things that we had done, but why?
Well, because of His mercy.
So when I think of the deity of Christ, it's difficult to get a clear understanding of God.
I mean, we're talking about Jesus Christ.
He's the Savior of the world.
He's the creator of all things in whom we call God, being all one in the same.
You see, this world that we live in has
people in it honestly that just do not believe this.
There are many people that live in this world that put their faith in things way other than Jesus Christ.
And the account of the Bible to them is something that they just don't give any accuracy to.
There are some that do not see the very truth of the cross of Jesus and how he died on it to save you and me from an eternal literal hell.
Perhaps they might acknowledge the cross
but they don't truly believe the reality of what happened on the cross of Jesus that day.
This is something my friends that you and me, we really must be concerned about this.
As a fellow Christian, a follower of Jesus Christ, listen, our hearts, listen, our hearts must be troubled for those who do not know Jesus in this way.
Billy Graham once said that if we're putting
our faith in anything other than Jesus.
Listen to what Billy said.
Then Jesus really didn't need to die on the cross.
So if we say as Christians that Jesus is the savior of the world, then we must understand that in order for him to be the savior of the world, then he had to die on the cross.
He had to die for you and for me.
This message is one that all people need to hear and they need to hear it considering it their highest
priority.
This world needs to be told of the cross of Jesus and how he died just for them so that they can have hope for an eternity with him and out of the pits of eternal torment in the place called hell.
This, my friends, listen, this is who Jesus is.
He is the one who made the way for us to be saved from our sins.
So Jesus has at least three things that he gives us freely.
And these three things can never be given to us by anyone else.
So what does he give us?
Well, he gives us righteousness.
He gives us perfect grace.
And he gives us perfect peace.
Now out of all three of these things, not a single one of them can be earned by us or earned by anyone else.
We are given the gift of all three of these things through our accepting that Jesus Christ is Lord of all and that He is the Savior of the world.
Listen, whenever we become a child of God, His righteousness becomes our righteousness.
His grace becomes our grace, and His peace becomes our peace.
It is only Jesus that can give us these things in that way.
So Jesus is who we should be putting our faith in.
And once we do,
We will begin to grow more and more in Him as we truly make Him the Lord of our lives.
Not only must our faith be in Jesus Christ as our Lord and Savior, we must also realize that our faith recognizes His divine power that only He can possess.
If you have not seen this yet in your life, let me encourage you.
This is part of the spiritual growth journey that's so good to see.
watching the power of God work in our lives is just amazing to watch.
Listen, I can tell you about time after time and some of you I have.
Time after time, Lisa and I have seen the hand of God move in our lives in ways that I never could have imagined that he would move.
As you and I begin to know Jesus on a more personal level, we will then begin to see his divine power at work in our lives.
And it's only he that can possess this kind
of power no one else can.
Of course we know that Jesus' first documented miracle is where he turned water into wine at this little town called Cana.
The people that were there to experience this divine power in person saw that Jesus gave them not the worst wine, but he gave them the best wine, saved the best for last.
There was just no getting through this.
There is no watering it down to make it stretch further.
No, he gave them the best.
You see, when we're talking about the power of God, now listen, there's no halfway with Him.
There's no cheap substitute that comes with Jesus.
God's ways, always the best ways.
God gives us completion.
He gives us a finished product and is best because it comes not from us, it comes from Him.
So there's so many ways and demonstrations of God's divine power, even right here around us today.
If we just stop and look around, it doesn't take long to see what the Lord's power has done and is doing for all of us.
Think of this with me, church, when we accepted Jesus Christ as our Lord and Savior, nothing had to be added to that.
Nothing had to be added to that.
I was reminded just thinking about this actually this morning as I was going back over my notes.
Buddy of mine, we used to pal around there in Walter Byrne when we were teenagers.
1975 Trans Am.
We stopped one day to get gas at the gas station.
A little gas tank on his had a little flip down license tag where the little plate the plate folded down so you could get to the gas cap.
He pulled the gas cap filled it with gas and then he had this little can and in this can was something called mystery oil.
Maybe you have
use this, nothing wrong with it, but he used it as an additive in his gas.
I said, well, what does that do?
And I've never seen that before.
And he said, oh, it just makes it run cleaner.
It makes it do all kinds of different things.
And so, you know, it just reminded me of that because when I think of the Lord and when I think of who he is, nothing has to be added to him.
His word, this word that we have right here is complete.
We serve a perfect and a complete God that doesn't need anything extra.
He gives us all that we need today and all that we will need for life.
Colossians chapter 2 verses 9 and 10 tells us this, for in Christ, listen, for in Christ, I like this, all the fullness of the deity lives in bodily form.
And in Christ, what has he done?
He says, well, you've been brought into fullness.
Marvel mystery oil, that's it Neil, you're right.
But as I mentioned earlier, look, we measured the growth of our kids in that little small closet and when they were born, their physical growth was natural and it was inevitable that they would continue to physically grow.
We were born genetically with what we need to grow physically, aren't we?
Just as babies were born with the physical equipment that they need to grow, the Christian also has been given all that we need to grow spiritually.
The Lord has so much for us right here where we are.
We should be focusing on Him.
We should be enjoying our spiritual growth in Him.
And as we grow in Him, we begin to experience His glory and His virtue as we get to know the person of Jesus Christ through our growth in Him.
Not only through our faith that we see the deity of who Jesus is and His divine power,
We can also see that our faith in Him includes something, and the Scriptures today tells us that His promises are included.
When I begin to think of what all that I know God has promised us, I can't help but be in awe of Him and His wonder.
He has promised us so many things.
Look with me again at verse four.
He says, through these He has given us His very great and precious promises so that through them you may participate in the divine nature.
having escaped the corruption in the world caused by evil desires.
Listen, God has given us all that we need to live our lives in a godly way.
He has given us His Word and an opportunity to enhance our relationship with Him.
Through His Word, we can constantly develop our relationship with Him and we will see growth in our lives and growth in our journey towards godliness utilizing the promises that we have that come through Him.
When all of us who are sinners believe on Jesus Christ and accept Him as our Lord and Savior, God will use His Word to make an incredible impact if we will only pick it up and read it.
I was recently listening to a pastor talking about spiritual growth and reading our copy of God's Word to obtain the spiritual growth.
It makes sense that that'd be the first place we'd go, amen.
But he made the statement that we can read the Bible through in one year if we would only read three chapters every day.
Well, he's pretty close.
I did the math.
I said, you're going to have to catch that check, buddy.
I need to read that myself.
So he's pretty close.
The Bible contains 1189 chapters.
And divided by 365 days, we get 3.25 chapters per day.
So you read three chapters a day, you throw in a couple of more every once in a while, and then you've got it.
My friends listen, three chapters a day, come on, that's attainable.
We can get some good serious reading if we can only commit 20 minutes a day to do this.
It'll do so much for us.
We will learn more about the divine nature of God.
This is the byproduct of that.
We learn more and more by reading.
We'll continually develop an appetite for more and more of Him.
And as a Christian, whether we're a new Christian or whether we've been Christians for years, our appetite for Him, listen, it should never fade away.
It should always be on the increase.
So if we ever ask ourselves the questions,
How great is our God?
You know, we sing in how great is our God.
We sing it all the time.
Our daily Bible study.
Yeah, they tell you just how great our God is.
What a great and serve, a great and powerful and divine God that we serve by trusting in the Lord and relying on His promises.
We will live a more godly,
life.
So what should we do, folks?
We should pursue him diligently.
We should be relying on him and his promises in every situation.
Listen, I want to remind you of this, and we say it so often, but this is so important for you to know.
There is nothing, and I say that again, nothing that is too big and there is nothing that is too small for God.
All of his promises
are right here in His Word.
He wants us to take hold of them.
He wants us to rest in them and take joy in knowing that He has made provision for all of us in every circumstances.
The provision is already made.
We just need to trust in Him.
So we know that our Christian life begins with faith.
We know that our faith has to be in Jesus and it cannot be in anything or anyone else.
We know that God demonstrates His power
And we know that we can have faith in all of his promises.
So spiritual growth for 2026 is we share the gospel with our friends and neighbors.
Listen, my prayer for you is that you take hold of this today and you see yourself growing in the Lord so that you can share your faith through with others through just intense evangelism throughout this year.
You see, God wants you to grow in him.
He wants you to pursue him on your spiritual growth journey.
So my questions for you are this.
Will we allow him to work in our lives?
Will we allow him to work in us the way that he wants to work?
Not necessarily convenient for us, but what is it that he wants us to do?
And I can say that because he already has a plan and he already has direction just
For you, are we willing to follow Him?
So as we close today, before we pray, just let me ask you this.
What is holding you back from growing spiritually?
What is it?
What is in the way?
What is it that is in your past that you just cannot seem to let go of?
Listen, folks, we serve a mighty, mighty, big God.
He is in control.
There is nothing that He won't forgive you for.
There's no need to continue looking over your shoulder.
Nothing that you have in your past that can affect your future with Jesus Christ.
Will you take the promises that He's given you?
And will you let Him work through you in a mighty way to reach other people for Him?
I pray today that you will.
So let's pray together.
Lord, thank you for this time that we've had.
Just thank you so much, Lord, for this message that we have out of Peter.
And we just pray, Lord, that we're able to take this and use it in a mighty way.
Father, something that's going to glorify you.
Thank you so much for our church family.
Thank you for their dedication to the word.
Thank you for their dedication to you, their dedication to the local church.
And Father, we're just grateful that we get to serve together in such a way, Lord, that is beautiful to you.
So help us always to do that.
We give you thanks.
We love you and it's in the name of Jesus that we pray.
Amen.
Thank you so much for being on here with us today.
As we close, I just want to remind you, all of these messages, this one that I just gave you, and then there's another one that's called Up to the Minute with Pastor Steve.
You can find these on an app.
If you go into your app store,
and download a podcast is called Godcaster, G-O-D-C-A-S-T-E-R, Godcaster.
The little emblem looks like a diamond G. So I would encourage you to go in
and download that app it's completely free and you will be able to find all of these messages if you want to just listen to them going down the road it's not video it's just audio so if you want to listen to that then there's we update this every week and then there's another short one about five minutes or less that we do is called up to the minute
with Pastor Steve, I would encourage you to download.
All of it is absolutely free.
Just another way to touch base with you during the week.
So if you would take the time to download that, Kevin Trotman has done an outstanding job helping me put this together.
And just between you, me and Defense Post, he's done most of it.
I just did the talking.
But he has done a wonderful job with this.
Just a great guy.
But God bless you.
I would encourage you to read your Bible every day.
and encourage you to just stay in touch here with all of us and I'll let God bless you in a mighty, mighty way.
So God bless you.
Have a great day.
We'll see you on Wednesday.
Take care.
Thank you for joining us today on the podcast and learning God's word together at Cornerstone Baptist Church.
To find out more about how to have a personal walk with Jesus, check out the contact page on our website at cbcakin.com.
We'd love to have you visit us at 100 Cornerstone Drive, Akin, South Carolina.
You're always welcome.
Don't hesitate to reach out.
God bless you and have a wonderful day.